Won't come back in this lesson we're going to show you how you can use time outs and time outs are really
useful object within the window.
So let's set up a few functions in order to accommodate our timeouts.
So first of all actually we need to set up a variable so we can just call it timer and we don't have
to set it to anything right now because this is actually where we're going to hold our time information.
I'm actually going to call it my timer
so within this function.
So this is the function that's actually going to trigger our first timeout.
And we'll call it start
start and.
And within here.
So in order to set up our timer we can use the variable my timer that we set up.
And this is important because touching it to a variable actually gives you control in order to remove
the timeout as well.
So we're going to set timeout and what time does is it cause a function after a specific time.
So basically after the specified time we're actually going to set and call in the function.
So this is just going to be my pop up we'll call it my pop up.
So that's the function that we're going to be calling.
And next we need to specify the amount of time that we want to call that in.
So we're going to call it in 1000 milliseconds.
So basically that's in within one second.
So let's do that now and we'll set up my pop up and then within here we can pretty much do whatever
we want to do.
So let's do an alert and within this alert we're just going to say hello.
And we also want to set up one more that's actually going to clear the timer.
So let's set that function up.
So do function and this time it's going to be clear.
So it's going to be clearing the interval so I don't have any arguments to pass in here.
And we're going to do it window and this is a built in method where it's clear interval.
So basically that cancels any repeating intervals so that we if we do have any that are still within
the system this will clear them out and stop them from running.
So now we're ready to go so we can create one more.
So this one we're just going to create an input and this is going to be type button so that we can actually
call out to our our method and then we're going to Skewes on click and use on click and we're going
to call out and give it a value to we're just going to call it start.
So whenever this button gets clicked then we're going to start our script.
And that's going to start this interval.
So basically we're going to launch that one and maybe what we'll do is we'll just keep it at that.
So let's go and refresh the page.
So now we've got a start button so let's see what happens.
We hit start and we see we get this halo popping up.
So basically that's what we can do.
We can delay running of a function and if by chance I start it and all of a sudden I don't want it to
go through.
I can always clear it by doing the clear and interval so that will clear it.
So this will be a stop and we see that it runs just that one time.
So let's let's start.
And if I hit stop fast enough then I'm able to clear out and clean out that interval.
Otherwise if I had start and if I wait the 1000 milliseconds then we see that that fires off and you
can use these functions in a number of different ways within your script in order to initiate the running
of different functions within a specified time.
And there's another really neat thing that we can do with that as well so if we want to continuously
loop a specific function to continuously fire off we can initiate it to actually set that timeout again
and again and this time I'm adding in my pop up over here.
So when I start I and I I n t starts up it all.
So the pop up it'll set the timeout and then within one second it will initiate start I.A. again.
So let's see how that works will save it.
Try it out and let's refresh the page.
So let's start and now we see we've got.
Hello and hello and hello.
So basically what's happening is this is running over and over and over again so every minute or every
second it's basically popping up.
And in order for me to stop it I can always clear that interval that way.
So what I want you to do now is open up your editor and run a specific function within a specific time
period.
So when somebody load your web page within five seconds pop up a welcome message to that user you can
place it within your H mail as well as we've seen before.
So try that out and update page 1.
You can use wrapper and update the value of page 1 to welcome to my Web site within five seconds of
the person landing on your page.
So open up your editor try it out and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So if you had an opportunity to try this.
And it's great to get familiar with it.
So what we want to do is we want to set a timeout that's actually going to update the value of wrapper.
So let's first will build over function.
So this function is going to be update wrapper
and then here we can do documents and we know how we can grab those values we can do get element by
id and rapper and now let's update that inner h t m l to say welcome to my Web site and we'll put a
little happy face there at the end.
So basically what we want to do is we want this particular function to run five seconds into the web
page so we can set that timer and we can set that within here that instead of running this function
we can run that function and we can set it to timeout within five seconds.
So let's go back and see what happens so let's refresh our Web page.
And now we got to wait five seconds and then we see that it actually updates to the new code.
So that's it.
So that's all we have to do.
We didn't have to 70 variables for that.
Of course you can if you want to as well.
It's always a good idea to set them as variable so you can clear them out.
But in this case we simply want to fire off that function within a given time period and that's all
we want to do.
So we're able to accomplish that within just a few lines of code.
So go ahead and try to offer yourself if you already have and and see what you can do with the set timeout
method in javascript.